.TH mlogin 1 "June 2013" Manta "Manta Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
mlogin \- manta interactive session client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmlogin\fR [OPTION...] [OBJECT]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCmlogin\fR allows you to spawn an interactive job in Manta. Once running, your
terminal will be attached to the remote process running in the job via a shell
session tunneled through HTTPS, similar in concept to SSH.
.PP
Interactive sessions are a great way to debug a new job script in\-situ, or to
experience and explore the compute zone environment hands on.  It can also
become part of a workflow using interactive terminal utilities on large Manta
objects without the need to download or transfer the data \-\- e.g. the the use
of \fB\fCmdb\fR (the Modular Debugger) on crash dumps and core files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The default mode of \fB\fCmlogin\fR is to create a reduce job with no input keys.  This
job has no input data, but gets you a shell running in a Manta compute zone.
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mlogin
 * created interactive job
 * waiting for session... established
user@manta # ptree $$
91352 zsched
  2701  ./node lib/agent.js
    2715  /bin/bash --norc
      2735  ptree 2715
user@manta # exit
 * remote process exited
 * cleaning up resources...
 * session complete
.fi
.RE
.PP
A more complicated use of \fB\fCmlogin\fR would be crashdump analysis with \fB\fCmdb\fR:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mlogin -c 'mdb /manta/user/stor/vmcore.1' /user/stor/vmcore.1
 * created interactive job
 * waiting for session... established
Loading modules: [ unix genunix specfs dtrace mac ]
> ::status
debugging crash dump /manta/user/stor/vmcore.1 (64-bit)
operating system: 5.11 joyent_20130226T234312Z (i86pc)
panic message:
BAD TRAP: type=e (#pf Page fault) rp=ffffff00b8e01070 addr=7b0
> $q
 * remote process exited
 * cleaning up resources...
 * session complete
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The options are supported:
.TP
\fB\fC-a, --account login\fR
Authenticate as account (login name).
.TP
\fB\fC-c, --command shell_command\fR
Run \fB\fCshell_command\fR instead of the default shell. This will be passed to
\fB\fCbash -c\fR inside the interactive job, and can be used to run a command
other than the default interactive shell.  Can be especially useful when
you provide a script or program to run via \fB\fC--assets\fR.
.TP
\fB\fC-h, --help\fR
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\fC-i, --insecure\fR
This option explicitly allows "insecure" SSL connections and transfers.  All
SSL connections are attempted to be made secure by using the CA certificate
bundle installed by default.
.TP
\fB\fC-k, --key fingerprint\fR
Authenticate using the SSH key described by \fB\fCfingerprint\fR.  The key must
either be in \fB\fC~/.ssh\fR or loaded in the SSH agent via \fB\fCssh-add\fR.
.TP
\fB\fC-s, --assets path\fR
Specifies an asset to make available in the compute zone.
.TP
\fB\fC-u, --url url\fR
Manta base URL (such as \fB\fChttps://manta.us-east.joyent.com\fR).
.TP
\fB\fC-v, --verbose\fR
Print debug output to stderr.  Repeat option to increase verbosity.
.TP
\fB\fC-q, --quiet\fR
Don't print session establishment status messages.
.TP
\fB\fC--disk disk\fR
Override the OS quota, and use the specified amount of disk.
This option is specified in gigabytes.
.TP
\fB\fC--memory memory\fR
Override the OS size, and use the specified amount of DRAM.
This option is specified in megabytes.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_USER\fR
In place of \fB\fC-a, --account\fR
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_KEY_ID\fR
In place of \fB\fC-k, --key\fR.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_URL\fR
In place of \fB\fC-u, --url\fR.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_TLS_INSECURE\fR
In place of \fB\fC-i, --insecure\fR.
.SH BUGS
.PP
DSA keys do not work when loaded via the SSH agent.
.PP
Report bugs at Github
.UR https://github.com/joyent/node-manta/issues
.UE
