.TH mchmod 1 "August 2014" Manta "Manta Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
mchmod \- change object role tags
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmchmod\fR [OPTION...] \-\- [+\-=]ROLE,... OBJECT
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
mchmod sets the role tags on an object or directory. Role tags are used to
determine which of a user's roles will be checked to allow access.
.PP
Note that in order to use \fB\fCmchmod +ROLE\fR or \fB\fCmchmode \-ROLE\fR you will need access
to read and write object metadata. Using \fB\fCmchmod =ROLE\fR only requires write
access.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mchmod \-\- +read ~~/stor/foo.txt

$ mchmod \-\- \-read,write ~~/stor/foo.txt

$ mchmod \-a other_account \-\- =read ~~/stor/foot.txt
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-a, \-\-account login\fR
Authenticate as account (login name).
.TP
\fB\fC\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR
This option explicitly allows "insecure" SSL connections and transfers.  All
SSL connections are attempted to be made secure by using the CA certificate
bundle installed by default.
.TP
\fB\fC\-k, \-\-key fingerprint\fR
Authenticate using the SSH key described by FINGERPRINT.  The key must
either be in \fB\fC~/.ssh\fR or loaded in the SSH agent via \fB\fCssh\-add\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role\fR
Specify which roles to assume for the request.
.TP
\fB\fC\-u, \-\-url url\fR
Manta base URL (such as \fB\fChttps://us\-central.manta.mnx.io\fR).
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-user user\fR
Authenticate as user under account.
.TP
\fB\fC\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Print debug output to stderr.  Repeat option to increase verbosity.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_USER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-a, \-\-account\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_SUBUSER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-user\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_KEY_ID\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-k, \-\-key\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_URL\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-u, \-\-url\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_TLS_INSECURE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_ROLE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-role\fR\&.
.PP
The shortcut \fB\fC~~\fR is equivalent to \fB\fC/:login\fR
where \fB\fC:login\fR is the account login name.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When using the \fB\fC\-v\fR option, diagnostics will be sent to stderr in bunyan
output format.  As an example of tracing all information about a request,
try:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mchmod \-v ~~/stor/foo 2>&1 | bunyan
.fi
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
DSA keys do not work when loaded via the SSH agent.
.PP
Report bugs at Github \[la]https://github.com/TritonDataCenter/node-manta/issues\[ra]
