.TH mfind 1 "July 2016" Manta "Manta Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
mfind \- search for objects in a directory hierarchy.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmfind\fR [OPTION...] PATH...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The mfind utility recursively descends the directory tree for each path listed,
listing names that are the specified \fB\fCtype\fR (or all if none is specified).
.PP
Unlike GNU/BSD find, \fB\fCmfind\fR is not yet sophisticated enough to support full
\fB\fCexpression\fR matching, but does (currently) allow a \fB\fC\-\-name\fR option that
supports Regular Expression matching.
.PP
With the \fB\fC\-\-json\fR option a stream of JSON objects is printed. Each JSON object
contains the fields from the Manta ListDirectory API
endpoint \[la]https://apidocs.tritondatacenter.com/manta/api.html#ListDirectory\[ra], plus the
following client\-side added fields:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCdepth\fR: An integer directory depth under the given directory,
starting from 0.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCparent\fR: The full directory path of the entry.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mfind \-t o \-n '.+.log$' ~~/stor/logs/foo/2013/04/29
~~/stor/logs/foo/2013/04/29/00/gandalf.log
/$USER/stor/logs/foo/2013/04/29/00/frodo.log
~~/stor/logs/foo/2013/04/29/01/sam.log
/$USER/stor/logs/foo/2013/04/29/01/aragorn.log
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-a, \-\-account login\fR
Authenticate as account (login name).
.TP
\fB\fC\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR
This option explicitly allows "insecure" SSL connections and transfers.  All
SSL connections are attempted to be made secure by using the CA certificate
bundle installed by default.
.TP
\fB\fC\-j, \-\-json\fR
Output a newline\-separated JSON stream of find results.
.TP
\fB\fC\-k, \-\-key fingerprint\fR
Authenticate using the SSH key described by FINGERPRINT.  The key must
either be in \fB\fC~/.ssh\fR or loaded in the SSH agent via \fB\fCssh\-add\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-l, \-\-limit\fR
Limit number of entries returned per request.
.TP
\fB\fC\-n, \-\-name regexp\fR
Only return entries that have a name matching RegExp.  RegExp is a
Javascript Regular Expression.
.TP
\fB\fC\-p, \-\-parallel NUM\fR
Limit concurrent operations to NUM.  Default is 50.
.TP
\fB\fC\-s, \-\-size SIZE\fR
Only list objects that are greater than SIZE bytes.
.TP
\fB\fC\-t, \-\-type type\fR
Specify \fB\fCd\fR for directories, and \fB\fCo\fR for objects.  If specified, only names of
that type will be returned.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-maxdepth\fR
Only print items items less than this depth
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-mindepth\fR
Only print items with at least this depth
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Specify which roles to assume for the request.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-user user\fR
Authenticate as user under account.
.TP
\fB\fC\-u, \-\-url url\fR
Manta base URL (such as \fB\fChttps://us\-central.manta.mnx.io\fR).
.TP
\fB\fC\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Print debug output to stderr.  Repeat option to increase verbosity.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_USER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-a, \-\-account\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_SUBUSER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-user\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_KEY_ID\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-k, \-\-key\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_ROLE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-role\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_URL\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-u, \-\-url\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_TLS_INSECURE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR\&.
.PP
The shortcut \fB\fC~~\fR is equivalent to \fB\fC/:login\fR
where \fB\fC:login\fR is the account login name.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When using the \fB\fC\-v\fR option, diagnostics will be sent to stderr in bunyan
output format.  As an example of tracing all information about a request,
try:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mfind \-vv ~~/stor 2>&1 | bunyan
.fi
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
DSA keys do not work when loaded via the SSH agent.
.PP
Report bugs at Github \[la]https://github.com/TritonDataCenter/node-manta/issues\[ra]
