.TH mget 1 "March 2019" Manta "Manta Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
mget \- download an object from Manta.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmget\fR [OPTION...] PATH...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Retrieves the content of 
.BR object (s) 
specified by 
.BR PATH (s), 
and dumps them to
stdout.  Note that mget does not perform incremental/resumable downloads, so any
network\-level errors that occur during transfer will result in an incomplete
and/or corrupt output.  You should check for an exit status of 0 to know that
the request was successful.
.PP
Note that mget by default will emit a progress meter on stderr.  You can
disable this with \fB\fC\-q\fR\&.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Retrieves the given object, with a progress indicator.
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mget ~~/stor/README.md > /tmp/README.md
.fi
.RE
.PP
Retrieves the given object, with a progress indicator, and stores it in the
file README.md in the current directory.
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mget \-O ~~/stor/README.md
.fi
.RE
.PP
Finds and fetches a set of Javascript files, and pipes them to less.
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mfind \-t o \-n '.js$' ~~/stor/foo | xargs mget \-q | less
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-a, \-\-account login\fR
Authenticate as account (login name).
.TP
\fB\fC\-H, \-\-header='header: value'\fR
Additional HTTP header to include. Can be specified multiple times. Must be
specified for each additional header.
.TP
\fB\fC\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR
This option explicitly allows "insecure" SSL connections and transfers.  All
SSL connections are attempted to be made secure by using the CA certificate
bundle installed by default.
.TP
\fB\fC\-k, \-\-key fingerprint\fR
Authenticate using the SSH key described by FINGERPRINT.  The key must
either be in \fB\fC~/.ssh\fR or loaded in the SSH agent via \fB\fCssh\-add\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Specify which roles to assume for the request.
.TP
\fB\fC\-o, \-\-output file\fR
Write output to <file> instead of stdout.
.TP
\fB\fC\-O, \-\-remote\-name\fR
Write output to a file using the requested object's name (i.e. the last
element of the full object path) instead of stdout.
.TP
\fB\fC\-q, \-\-quiet\fR
Do not display a progress meter.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-user user\fR
Authenticate as user under account.
.TP
\fB\fC\-u, \-\-url url\fR
Manta base URL (such as \fB\fChttps://manta.us\-east.joyent.com\fR).
.TP
\fB\fC\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Print debug output to stderr.  Repeat option to increase verbosity.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_USER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-a, \-\-account\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_SUBUSER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-user\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_KEY_ID\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-k, \-\-key\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_ROLE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-role\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_URL\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-u, \-\-url\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_TLS_INSECURE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR\&.
.PP
The shortcut \fB\fC~~\fR is equivalent to \fB\fC/:login\fR
where \fB\fC:login\fR is the account login name.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When using the \fB\fC\-v\fR option, diagnostics will be sent to stderr in bunyan
output format.  As an example of tracing all information about a request,
try:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mget \-vv ~~/stor/foo 2>&1 | bunyan
.fi
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
DSA keys do not work when loaded via the SSH agent.
.PP
Report bugs at Github \[la]https://github.com/joyent/node-manta/issues\[ra]
