.TH mput 1 "May 2013" Manta "Manta Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
mput \- create an object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmput\fR [OPTION...] OBJECT
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
mput creates an object specified at the name OBJECT with the contents either
coming from stdin, or from the file specified with \fB\fC\-f\fR\&.  mput will attempt to
set the HTTP Content\-Type based on the extension on the object, unless
Content\-Type is specified as an HTTP header.  If mput cannot determine the type
based on the extension the default content\-type is usually
\fB\fCapplication/octet\-stream\fR, but this can be overriden by setting the environment
variable \fB\fCMANTA_DEFAULT_CONTENT_TYPE\fR (or passing \fB\fC\-H\fR).
.PP
By default, mput creates two copies of an object; this can be overridden with
\fB\fC\-c\fR\&.  Lastly, mput also draws a progress meter by default; this can be disabled
with \fB\fC\-q\fR\&.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Create an object with the contents of foo.txt.  Content\-type will be text/plain.
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mput \-f ./foo.txt ~~/stor/foo.txt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create the same object from stdin, and set content\-type.
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cat ./foo.txt | mput \-H 'content\-type: text/plain' ~~/stor/foo.txt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create the same object, set CORS header, and create 3 copies, with no progress bar:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cat ./foo.txt | mput \-H 'content\-type: text/plain' \\
                       \-H 'access\-control\-allow\-origin: *' \\
                       \-c 3 \-q \\
                       ~~/stor/foo.txt
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-a, \-\-account login\fR
Authenticate as account (login name).
.TP
\fB\fC\-c, \-\-copies file\fR
Create COPIES copies as a replication factor (default 2).
.TP
\fB\fC\-f, \-\-file file\fR
Create contents of object from file.
.TP
\fB\fC\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR
This option explicitly allows "insecure" SSL connections and transfers.  All
SSL connections are attempted to be made secure by using the CA certificate
bundle installed by default.
.TP
\fB\fC\-k, \-\-key fingerprint\fR
Authenticate using the SSH key described by FINGERPRINT.  The key must
either be in \fB\fC~/.ssh\fR or loaded in the SSH agent via \fB\fCssh\-add\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-m, \-\-md5\fR
When using \fB\fC\-\-file\fR, this switch instructs mput to first compute the MD5 of
the file and send it in \fB\fCcontent\-md5\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-p, \-\-parents\fR
Create parent directories as needed.
.TP
\fB\fC\-q, \-\-quiet\fR
Do not display a progress meter.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Specify which roles to assume for the request.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role\-tag=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Set the role tags on the created object.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-user user\fR
Authenticate as user under account.
.TP
\fB\fC\-u, \-\-url url\fR
Manta base URL (such as \fB\fChttps://us\-central.manta.mnx.io\fR).
.TP
\fB\fC\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Print debug output to stderr.  Repeat option to increase verbosity.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_USER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-a, \-\-account\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_SUBUSER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-user\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_KEY_ID\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-k, \-\-key\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_ROLE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-role\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_URL\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-u, \-\-url\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_TLS_INSECURE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR\&.
.PP
The shortcut \fB\fC~~\fR is equivalent to \fB\fC/:login\fR
where \fB\fC:login\fR is the account login name.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When using the \fB\fC\-v\fR option, diagnostics will be sent to stderr in bunyan
output format.  As an example of tracing all information about a request,
try:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mput \-vv ~~/stor/foo 2>&1 | bunyan
.fi
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
DSA keys do not work when loaded via the SSH agent.
.PP
Report bugs at Github \[la]https://github.com/TritonDataCenter/node-manta/issues\[ra]
