.TH msign 1 "December 2018" Manta "Manta Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
msign \- create a signed URL to a Manta object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmsign\fR [OPTION...] OBJECT...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
msign takes a list of objects (or directories), and using the credentials from
the environment (whether environment variables or command line switches) creates
time\-expiring URLs that can be shared with others.  This is useful to generate
HTML links, for example.
.PP
The default expiration for URLs is 1 hour from \fB\fCnow\fR, but this can be changed
with the \fB\fCexpires\fR option.  The expires option is designed to be used in
conjunction with the UNIX date command.  In general, you should use the date
command with a modifier (the syntax is different between BSD and GNU forms), and
format the output to epoch time.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Assuming the GNU date command, generate a signed URL that expires in one month:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ msign \-e $(date \-d "1 month" "+%s") ~~/stor/tmp
.fi
.RE
.PP
On OS X, you would sign this way:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ msign \-e $(date \-v+1m "+%s") ~~/stor/tmp
.fi
.RE
.PP
You can also use \fB\fC\-E\fR for a friendly relative date format:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ msign \-E 5s ~~/foo # expires in 5 seconds
$ msign \-E 5m ~~/foo # expires in 5 minutes
$ msign \-E 5h ~~/foo # expires in 5 hours
$ msign \-E 5d ~~/foo # expires in 5 days
$ msign \-E 5w ~~/foo # expires in 5 weeks
$ msign \-E 5y ~~/foo # expires in 5 years
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-a, \-\-account login\fR
Authenticate as account (login name).
.TP
\fB\fC\-e, \-\-expires expiration\fR
Signed URL should last until EXPIRATION (seconds since epoch).  Default is 1
hour from \fB\fCnow\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-E, \-\-expires\-relative expiration\fR
Signed URL should last until EXPIRATION (relative time spec).  Default is 1
hour from \fB\fCnow\fR\&.  Time specification format:
.PP
.RS
.nf
[n]s \- seconds from now
[n]m \- minutes from now
[n]h \- hours from now
[n]d \- days from now
[n]w \- weeks from now
[n]y \- years from now
.fi
.RE
.TP
\fB\fC\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR
This option explicitly allows "insecure" SSL connections and transfers.  All
SSL connections are attempted to be made secure by using the CA certificate
bundle installed by default.
.TP
\fB\fC\-k, \-\-key fingerprint\fR
Authenticate using the SSH key described by FINGERPRINT.  The key must
either be in \fB\fC~/.ssh\fR or loaded in the SSH agent via \fB\fCssh\-add\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-m, \-\-method http_method\fR
Allow URL to work for the HTTP method specified (default is GET).
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Specify which roles to assume for the request.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role\-tag=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Set the role tags on objects created with the signed URL.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-user user\fR
Authenticate as user under account.
.TP
\fB\fC\-u, \-\-url url\fR
Manta base URL (such as \fB\fChttps://us\-central.manta.mnx.io\fR).
.TP
\fB\fC\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Print debug output to stderr.  Repeat option to increase verbosity.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_USER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-a, \-\-account\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_SUBUSER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-user\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_KEY_ID\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-k, \-\-key\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_ROLE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-role\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_URL\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-u, \-\-url\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_TLS_INSECURE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR\&.
.PP
The shortcut \fB\fC~~\fR is equivalent to \fB\fC/:login\fR
where \fB\fC:login\fR is the account login name.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When using the \fB\fC\-v\fR option, diagnostics will be sent to stderr in bunyan
output format.  As an example of tracing all information about a request,
try:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ msign \-vv ~~/stor/foo 2>&1 | bunyan
.fi
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
DSA keys do not work when loaded via the SSH agent.
.PP
Report bugs at Github \[la]https://github.com/TritonDataCenter/node-manta/issues\[ra]
