.TH msync 1 "May 2023" Manta "Manta Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
msync \- synchronize a directory hierarchy with Manta.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmsync\fR LOCAL_PATH MANTA_PATH
.PP
\fB\fCmsync\fR \-r MANTA_PATH LOCAL_PATH
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The msync utility synchronizes the contents of a directory between a local
filesystem and manta. By default a local directory will be uploaded to Manta.
Using the \fB\fC\-r\fR flag will reverse the operation, downloading an entire Manta
directory.
.PP
Like rsync, msync will skip files already on the destination by checking the
size (or alternatively the md5 sum).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ msync ./shakespeare/ ~~/stor/plays/shakespeare
building source file list...
source file list built, 1222 files found
/fbulsara/stor/plays/shakespeare/index.html... not found, adding to sync list (1/1222)
/fbulsara/stor/plays/shakespeare/test.html... not found, adding to sync list (2/1222)
/fbulsara/stor/plays/shakespeare/favicon.ico... not found, adding to sync list (3/1222)
/fbulsara/stor/plays/shakespeare/news.html... not found, adding to sync list (4/1222)
\&. . .
/fbulsara/stor/plays/shakespeare/History/2kinghenryvi/2henryvi.2.3.html... synced (1221/1222)
/fbulsara/stor/plays/shakespeare/History/2kinghenryvi/2henryvi.4.8.html... synced (1222/1222)

1222 files (24.07 MB) synced successfully, 0 files failed to sync (took 33s 758ms)
done
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-a, \-\-account=login\fR
Authenticate as account (login name).
.TP
\fB\fC\-c, \-\-copies=copies\fR
Number of copies to make.
.TP
\fB\fC\-f, \-\-file=tarfile\fR
The tar file to extract from.
.TP
\fB\fC\-H, \-\-header=header\fR
HTTP headers to include.
.TP
\fB\fC\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR
This option explicitly allows "insecure" SSL connections and transfers.  All
SSL connections are attempted to be made secure by using the CA certificate
bundle installed by default.
.TP
\fB\fC\-k fingerprint, \-\-key=fingerprint\fR
Authenticate using the SSH key described by FINGERPRINT.  The key must
either be in \fB\fC~/.ssh\fR or loaded in the SSH agent via \fB\fCssh\-add\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-p NUM, \-\-parallel=NUM\fR
Limit concurrent operations to NUM.  Default is 20.
.TP
\fB\fC\-t, \-\-type type\fR
Specify \fB\fCd\fR for directories, and \fB\fCo\fR for objects.  If specified, only names of
that type will be returned.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Specify which roles to assume for the request.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role\-tag=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Set the role tags on created objects and directories.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-user user\fR
Authenticate as user under account.
.TP
\fB\fC\-u, \-\-url url\fR
Manta base URL (such as \fB\fChttps://us\-central.manta.mnx.io\fR).
.TP
\fB\fC\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Print debug output to stderr.  Repeat option to increase verbosity.
.TP
\fB\fC\-j, \-\-just\-delete\fR
don't send local files, just delete extra remote files.
.TP
\fB\fC\-l, \-\-ignore\-links\fR
ignore symlinks. Note: By default symlinks are followed. The linked file will
be uploaded as an object to Manta.
.TP
\fB\fC\-m, \-\-md5\fR
use md5 instead of file size (slower, but more accurate).
.TP
\fB\fC\-n, \-\-dry\-run\fR
don't perform any remote PUT or DELETE operations.
.TP
\fB\fC\-p CONCURRENCY, \-\-parallel=CONCURRENCY\fR
limit concurrent operations.
.TP
\fB\fC\-q, \-\-quiet\fR
suppress all output.
.TP
\fB\fC\-r, \-\-reverse\fR
manta to local sync.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_USER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-a, \-\-account\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_SUBUSER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-user\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_KEY_ID\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-k, \-\-key\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_ROLE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-role\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_URL\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-u, \-\-url\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_TLS_INSECURE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR\&.
.PP
The shortcut \fB\fC~~\fR is equivalent to \fB\fC/:login\fR
where \fB\fC:login\fR is the account login name.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Unlike other commands, \-v does not output bunyan logs. Instead, it will list
each file status rather than only files that are out of sync.
.SH NOTES
.SH BUGS
.PP
DSA keys do not work when loaded via the SSH agent.
.PP
Report bugs at Github \[la]https://github.com/TritonDataCenter/node-manta/issues\[ra]
