.TH muntar 1 "May 2013" Manta "Manta Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
muntar \- create a directory hierarchy from a tar file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmuntar\fR \-f tarfile [OPTION...] PATH...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The muntar utility extracts the contents of a tar file and creates
the corresponding objects in the path specified. If the destination
directories do not exist, they are created.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ muntar \-f shakespeare.tar  ~~/stor/plays/shakespeare
~~/stor/plays/shakespeare/README
~~/stor/plays/shakespeare/comedies/cymbeline
~~/stor/plays/shakespeare/glossary
\&. . .
~~/stor/plays/shakespeare/comedies/merrywivesofwindsor
~~/stor/plays/shakespeare/poetry/rapeoflucrece
~~/stor/plays/shakespeare/poetry/various
~~/stor/plays/shakespeare/poetry/sonnets
.fi
.RE
.PP
If the tarball is compressed, you can store it as an object and use muntar
in the compute environment.
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mput \-f /var/tmp/backup.tar.gz ~~/stor/backup.tar.gz
$ echo ~~/stor/backup.tar.gz | \\
    mjob create \-o \-m gzcat \-m 'muntar \-f $MANTA_INPUT_FILE ~~/stor'
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-a, \-\-account=login\fR
Authenticate as account (login name).
.TP
\fB\fC\-c, \-\-copies=copies\fR
Number of copies to make.
.TP
\fB\fC\-f, \-\-file=tarfile\fR
The tar file to extract from.
.TP
\fB\fC\-H, \-\-header=header\fR
HTTP headers to include.
.TP
\fB\fC\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR
This option explicitly allows "insecure" SSL connections and transfers.  All
SSL connections are attempted to be made secure by using the CA certificate
bundle installed by default.
.TP
\fB\fC\-k fingerprint, \-\-key=fingerprint\fR
Authenticate using the SSH key described by FINGERPRINT.  The key must
either be in \fB\fC~/.ssh\fR or loaded in the SSH agent via \fB\fCssh\-add\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-p NUM, \-\-parallel=NUM\fR
Limit concurrent operations to NUM.  Default is 20.
.TP
\fB\fC\-t, \-\-type type\fR
Specify \fB\fCd\fR for directories, and \fB\fCo\fR for objects.  If specified, only names of
that type will be returned.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Specify which roles to assume for the request.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-role\-tag=ROLE,ROLE,...\fR
Set the role tags on created objects and directories.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-user user\fR
Authenticate as user under account.
.TP
\fB\fC\-u, \-\-url url\fR
Manta base URL (such as \fB\fChttps://manta.us\-east.joyent.com\fR).
.TP
\fB\fC\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Print debug output to stderr.  Repeat option to increase verbosity.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_USER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-a, \-\-account\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_SUBUSER\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-user\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_KEY_ID\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-k, \-\-key\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_ROLE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-\-role\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_URL\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-u, \-\-url\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fCMANTA_TLS_INSECURE\fR
In place of \fB\fC\-i, \-\-insecure\fR\&.
.PP
The shortcut \fB\fC~~\fR is equivalent to \fB\fC/:login\fR
where \fB\fC:login\fR is the account login name.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When using the \fB\fC\-v\fR option, diagnostics will be sent to stderr in bunyan
output format.  As an example of tracing all information about a request,
try:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ mfind \-vv ~~/stor 2>&1 | bunyan
.fi
.RE
.SH NOTES
.SH BUGS
.PP
DSA keys do not work when loaded via the SSH agent.
.PP
Report bugs at Github \[la]https://github.com/joyent/node-manta/issues\[ra]
